.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" See LICENSE
.\"
.TH NBSPGLGOESRMAP 10 "4 FEBRUARY, 2025"
.SH NAME
nbspglgoesrmap \- Create a png from a sat goesr netcdf file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnbspglgoesrmap\fR [-baCDk] [-f mapfontsdir] [-g geodatadir]
[-m user_map_template] [-o output_file] <ncfile>
.PP
This is a (shell) script with no configuration file. The input <ncfile>
is the netcdf file (e.g., tire05_20250116_1256.goesr)
.PP
The options are as follows:
.PP
-b => background
.PP
-a => the inputfile is the asc file instead of the netcdf file
.PP
-C => writeout the map template and exit (can be edited and submitted with -m)
.PP
-D => writeout the map and exit (can be edited and submitted to map2img)
.PP
-f => mapfonts dir (default is /usr/local/share/nbspgislib/defaults/mapfonts)
.PP
-g => geodata dir (default is /usr/local/share/nbspgislib/defaults/geodata)
.PP
-k => keep all tmp files generated (asc, map and map template)
.PP
-m => specify a map template to use (it is not deleted even if -k is not set)
.PP
-o => output (png) file
.PP
In the simplest use,
.PP
.RS 2
nbspgoesrmap <ncfile>  (e.g. tire05_20250116_1256.goesr)
.RE
.PP
will produce the png file through the following steps:
.PP
1) Write out the default map template (goesr.map.in)
.PP
2) Determine the extent and size to be used in the "map2img" map file
by executing
.PP
.RS 2
nbspgoesr -i <ncfile>
.RE
.PP
and extracting the relevant parameters from the output. If [-a]
is given the parameters are extracted from the asc file.
.PP
3) Converts the map template to the map file (goesr.map)
using "sed" to substitute the various parameters by the
values extracted in (2), and the name of the ascfile (determined
from the name of the input file).
.PP
4) Execute
.RS 2
nbspgoesrgis -a <ascfile> <ncfile>
.RE
.PP
to create the asc file that will be used in the map2img map file.
If [-a] is given this step is omitted.
.PP
5) Execute
.RS 2
map2img -m <mapfile> -o <outputfile>
.RE
.PP
using the mapfile created in (3).
.PP
The options modify the default behaviour. In particular, the -C option
can be used to write out the default map template used, which can then
be manually edited and modified, and then submit as the map template
to use with -m option. The [-D] writes out the map that is used with map2img
after making the substitutions in the map template.

